Add author info for Gary Badwal in Google GenAI integration (TextEmbedder & DocumentEmbedder) (#333)
deepset-ai/haystack-integrations: integrations/google-genai.md

---
layout: integration
name: Google Gen AI
description: Use Google's Gemini models with Haystack via the new Google Gen AI SDK
authors:
  - name: deepset
    socials:
      github: deepset-ai
      twitter: deepset_ai
      linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/company/deepset-ai/
  - name: Gary Badwal
    socials:
      website: garybadwal.com
      github: garybadwal
      twitter: garybadwal_
      linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/garybadwal/
pypi: https://pypi.org/project/google-genai-haystack/
repo: https://github.com/deepset-ai/haystack-core-integrations/tree/main/integrations/google_genai
type: Model Provider
report_issue: https://github.com/deepset-ai/haystack-core-integrations/issues
logo: /logos/googleai.png
version: Haystack 2.0
toc: true
---

### Table of Contents

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)

>   - [Chat Generation with `gemini-2.0-flash`](#chat-generation-with-gemini-20-flash)
>   - [Streaming Chat Generation](#streaming-chat-generation)
>   - [Function calling](#function-calling)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [Chat Generation with `gemini-2.0-flash`](#chat-generation-with-gemini-20-flash)
  - [Streaming Chat Generation](#streaming-chat-generation)
  - [Function calling](#function-calling)
  - [Document Embedding](#document-embedding)
  - [Text Embedding](#text-embedding)
```

## Overview

[Google Gen AI](https://ai.google.dev/) provides access to Google's Gemini models through the new Google Gen AI SDK. This integration enables the usage of Google's latest generative models via the updated API interface.

> Haystack supports the latest [Gemini models](https://ai.google.dev/models/gemini) including **gemini-2.0-flash** for tasks such as **chat completion**, **function calling**, and **streaming responses**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Haystack supports the latest [Gemini models](https://ai.google.dev/models/gemini) like `gemini-2.0-flash` and `text-embedding-004` for tasks such as **chat completion**, **function calling**, **streaming responses** and **embedding generation**.
```

Author: Done

## Installation

Install the Google Gen AI integration:

```bash
pip install google-genai-haystack
```

## Usage

> Once installed, you will have access to the Haystack Chat Generator:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once installed, you will have access to the Haystack components:
```

Author: Done

```python
import os
from haystack.dataclasses.chat_message import ChatMessage
from haystack.tools import Tool

os.environ["GOOGLE_API_KEY"] = "YOUR-GOOGLE-API-KEY"

# Define a simple weather function
def get_weather(city: str) -> str:
    return f"The weather in {city} is sunny and 25°C"

# Create a tool from the function
weather_tool = Tool(
    name="get_weather",
    description="Get weather information for a city",
    parameters={
        "type": "object",
        "properties": {
            "city": {"type": "string", "description": "The city name"}
        },
        "required": ["city"]
    },
    function=get_weather
)

# Initialize chat generator with tools
chat_generator = GoogleGenAIChatGenerator(
    model="gemini-2.0-flash",
    tools=[weather_tool]
)

# Generate response with tool usage
messages = [ChatMessage.from_user("What's the weather like in Paris?")]
response = chat_generator.run(messages=messages)

# The model will call the weather function and provide a natural response
print(response["replies"][0].text)
```

Output:

```shell
The weather in Paris is sunny and 25°C.
``` 

### Document Embedding

> To use Google model for embedding generation, set the `GOOGLE_API_KEY` environment variable and then initialize a `GoogleGenAIDocumentEmbedder`:

Reviewer 2: or `GEMINI_API_KEY`
